Updated 'Spawning players' docs and 'Simple Player Spawner component' docs (#2244)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/networking/multiplayer/spawning.md

weight: 700
---

> In most networking multiplayer games, when a player joins a session, the host must spawn an [*autonomous*](/docs/user-guide/networking/multiplayer/overview.md#multiplayer-entity-roles) networked entity for the player. Likewise, when a player leaves, the host must remove the entity and clean up. In **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**, you can set this up exactly, or handle join and leave events in other ways by using `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events, which are provided by the **Multiplayer Gem**'s `IMultiplayerSpawner` interface. Alternatively, to get started sooner, you can bypass programming these events and use the **Simple Player Spawner** component, which sets up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` for this common use case.

Reviewer: Add link to simple spawner component.
Also, nit: use relative link here.
```suggestion
In most networking multiplayer games, when a player joins a session, the host must spawn an [*autonomous*](overview#multiplayer-entity-roles) networked entity for the player. Likewise, when a player leaves, the host must remove the entity and clean up. In **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**, you can set up your spawning logic in this way, or handle join and leave events in other ways by using `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events, which are provided by the **Multiplayer Gem**'s `IMultiplayerSpawner` interface. Alternatively, to get started sooner, you can bypass programming these events and use the [**Simple Player Spawner**](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner) component, which sets up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` for this common use case.
```

Author: ^ Updated to "Simple Network Player Spawner"

> In most networking multiplayer games, when a player joins a session, the host must spawn an [*autonomous*](overview#multiplayer-entity-roles) networked entity for the player. Likewise, when a player leaves, the host must remove the entity and clean up. In **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**, you can set up your spawning logic in this way, or handle join and leave events in other ways by using `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events, which are provided by the **Multiplayer Gem**'s `IMultiplayerSpawner` interface. Alternatively, to get started sooner, you can bypass programming these events and use the [**Simple Network Player Spawner**](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner) component, which sets up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` for this common use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most networking multiplayer games, when a player joins a session, the host must spawn an [*autonomous*](overview#multiplayer-entity-roles) networked entity for the player. Likewise, when a player leaves, the host must remove the entity and clean up. In **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**, you can set up your spawning logic in this way, or handle join and leave events in other ways by using `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events, which the `IMultiplayerSpawner` interface of the **Multiplayer Gem** provides. Alternatively, to get started sooner, you can bypass programming these events and use the [**Simple Network Player Spawner**](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner) component, which sets up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` for this common use case.
```

`OnPlayerLeave` also takes a disconnect reason which allows responding to different kinds of disconnects. For example, it may be undesirable to clean up objects if a player times out if they can attempt to reconnect to the session.

> ## Examples in MultiplayerSample Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Examples in MultiplayerSample project
```
Consider changing to [sentence case for H2 headers](https://www.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/style-guide/format/#topic-headings). This is consistent with the capitalization (lowercase "project") in the first sentence of the following paragraph ("...in the MultiplayerSample project"). If you prefer to match the capitalization of the `README.md` title ("MultiplayerSample Project"), then change the first sentence occurrence to match, for consistency.

Author: I think "Project" should remain capitalized here because it's the proper name - MultiplayerSample Project. (See [repo](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample)). 
@paucom Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: @chanmosq That change is fine to me. However, as I mentioned in my previous comment ("f you prefer to match the capitalization of the `README.md` title...."), in this case, I recommend a corresponding change in the first sentence of the following paragraph. I'll add a comment for that change instead.

> A practical example of an implementation for a spawner is [`MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/2c84827ffb20082b8c16fc0edc65cd49226f3cd2/Gem/Code/Source/MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent.cpp) in the  [MultiplayerSample project](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/). MultiplayerSample Project implements a "round robin"-style spawning system that gathers entities with `NetworkPlayerSpawnerComponents`. `MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent` then queries that system during the `OnPlayerJoin` event. The `OnPlayerLeave` event simply marks the entity that's passed in for removal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A practical example of an implementation for a spawner is [`MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/2c84827ffb20082b8c16fc0edc65cd49226f3cd2/Gem/Code/Source/MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent.cpp) in [MultiplayerSample Project](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/). MultiplayerSample Project implements a "round robin"-style spawning system that gathers entities with `NetworkPlayerSpawnerComponents`. `MultiplayerSampleSystemComponent` then queries that system during the `OnPlayerJoin` event. The `OnPlayerLeave` event simply marks the entity that's passed in for removal.
```
Updated reference to match the title of the `README.md`, per our conversation in [this change suggestion thread](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/pull/2244#discussion_r1112661643).

> For more information on the MultiplayerSample project, see the [MultiplayerSample README](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the MultiplayerSample project, refer to the [MultiplayerSample README](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md).
```

> For more information about the MultiplayerSample project, refer to the [MultiplayerSample README](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about MultiplayerSample Project, refer to the [MultiplayerSample README](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md).
```
Updated reference to match the title of the `README.md`, per our conversation in [this change suggestion thread](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/pull/2244#discussion_r1112661643).

## Simple Player Spawning component

> The Simple Player Spawner level component provides a straightforward way to set up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events. It implements a common use case for handling those events, specifically: when a player joins, create a networked entity for that player, and when a player leaves, remove that entity.

Author: ```suggestion
The Simple Network Player Spawner level component provides a straightforward way to set up `OnPlayerJoin` and `OnPlayerLeave` events. It implements a common use case for handling those events, specifically: when a player joins, create a networked entity for that player, and when a player leaves, remove that entity.
```

> For more information, refer to [Simple Player Spawning component](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner). 

Reviewer: (or Simple Network Player Spawner)
```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Simple Player Spawner component](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner). 
```

> For more information, refer to [Simple Network Player Spawner component](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Simple Network Player Spawner component](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/multiplayer/simple-player-spawner).
```
Deleted an extra space
